I'd like to welcome you to session 110,
Overview of Mac OS X Networking APIs.
My name's Tom Weier.
I'm a consulting engineer in
our field engineering group,
and I have the fortune of
introducing this session.
There's a lot of things in Mac OS X that
have changed over the years.
A lot of new features have
come into the operating system,
and there's a lot of
material in this session.
As you saw in the keynote,
we have new VPN functionality,
new enhanced support for IPv6,
and a number of other key features.
So with that,
I'd like to welcome up Vincent Lubet,
manager of CoreOS Networking.
Good morning.
So this is what we're
going to go through today.
So we're going to start with a brief
overview of the Mac OS X networking,
a little bit the architecture,
what's the new features,
and then we're going to
delve into networking APIs.
There are a lot of networking APIs,
so it will be relatively high-level,
just more a list of features, and maybe,
hopefully, you will have some idea which,
depending on your needs,
which API to use.
And basically, we have system-level APIs,
and then also framework APIs,
framework-level,
and Becky will do the second part,
talking about the frameworks.
So we have ongoing goals,
and they haven't changed since
last year and the year before,
I think.
So the ease of use,
we'd like to have the networking
be as transparent as possible.
So one great example is Rendezvous
and other zero-conf effort.
Performance, also, is very important.
We have the same kernel
that runs on a laptop,
run also on an XR.
So performance and scalability
is an ongoing goal for us.
Extensibility,
that's a common feature from you,
from a lot of developers.
And also standards compliance.
Whenever we can stick to standards,
we would like to do it.
So the core of the
networking is in the kernel,
that Darwin layer,
and basically that where you have
the Apple Talks stack that is
not used very much these days,
but also the TCP/IP stack.
And all of that through the core
services and a lot of framework
serves the application's environment.
So, Mac OS X,
the stack is based on FreeBSD.
Last year, we updated it to FreeBSD 3.7,
I remember, something like that.
No, 4.
And so with that,
you get-- so it's a Unix-like--
The TCP stack includes IPSec and IPv6.
We introduced that last year already,
so we still have support for Apple Talk,
a full remote access suite
of protocols based on PPP.
The stack comes with a
firewall and also NAT daemon.
The cool stuff we have added to Unix is
this dynamic configuration based on the
frameworks with plugin architecture,
so that as far as we can,
we're trying to push the system
so that the configuration
reconfigures automatically.
And of course, we have Rendezvous,
and that was the major
breakthrough of last year.
So what's new in Painter?
So more rendezvous-aware
applications and services.
So if you went to the
Stuart session yesterday,
you saw a lot more
applications in Painter.
You have iChat, iTunes, Safari, and more.
We have also more IPv6-aware
applications and services.
One of them, so for example, AFP,
the one that you have in Painter,
runs over IPv6.
We are introducing also
an IPSec-based VPN,
802.1X for link layer authentication,
even better support for mobility and
WebKit and all the Safari framework,
and a lot more.
So we're going to go
through a little bit.
So 802.1X is a link layer authentication.
That means that that's a user
authentication that allows,
that runs,
before really your link can go up.
So it's really the...
coming to be the prevalent
way to secure wireless LANs.
But it's also used in some
switch environments for ethernet.
And in Panther, we support a wide range
of authentication methods.
822.1X is still a young protocol,
so it's not clear which of
those authentication protocols
will be the prevalent.
But we support all that list.
That are the ones that are used by Cisco,
Microsoft, and other vendors.
The Apple VPN,
so it's a client and server.
And so we use IPSec to provide
really the secure layers.
And we use also L2TP for
interoperability.
L2TP is, in fact,
it's running PPP over UDP.
And that provides
interoperability with Windows,
Cisco, and things like that.
That's really the really the only
standard VPN protocol out there.
And so we prefer AES for the encryption.
For those who know the
cryptographic algorithm,
it's more efficient.
But we still support triple
DES and other algorithms.
And we have also added
support for SecureID.
It's a very popular way to
provide user authentication.
So I think that's a lot of --
it's deployed in the company.
But we have also other support, MSCHAP,
V2, and things like that.
So we have a different
level of networking APIs,
so that's just a short list.
And we're going to go through
that in the rest of the session.
So first,
I'm going to start by the bottom,
if you like,
that are the system-level APIs.
It's more or less what
you find in Darwin,
the open source implementation.
So I'll start with the BSD Socket.
So that's the fundamental
APIs for networking.
Everything else is mostly-- every other
networking API is based on BSD Socket.
And so that's the one you use to
get the most out of the system.
That's the raw access to the kernel.
It's done via Socket.
So when to use Socket?
For performance.
So if you're in server environment,
if you're writing a server application,
you can use
You have the insurance to
have the most of the system.
You have very fine control
of what's happening.
You have access to all
the low-level controls,
complete IPsecs, PF and DRV,
and things like that.
We're going to talk about that.
And also, BSD, so it brings you Unix
compatibility and portability.
On Windows, they have WinSocs,
relatively close,
so often it's a good way
to ensure portability.
With the BSD Socket comes
the resolver library.
So it provides name
and address resolution.
In fact, there are two levels of APIs.
Some of them work with
other name systems,
not only the DNS.
And it goes on and on.
So with the Socket API, in Panther,
it's been updated to bind line,
so the latest and greatest.
And we have also full IPv6 support.
That means that you can resolve an IPv6
address using the resolver functions.
But also, you can resolve over V4 and V6.
So it's the full set.
So IPv6,
so we implement the standard APIs.
It's part of Socket.
It's an extension of
the basic Socket API.
Something that we turned
off that was a nice--
Functionality was mapped address that
we're able to use when you were a server.
You were, for example,
people were using just one socket,
a V6 socket.
Because V6 addresses are
larger than V4 addresses,
with this option of mapped address,
you could have also, receive also V4
connection on that socket.
For security reasons,
we disabled that by default.
It's off, it's not disabled,
but it's off by default.
Because there are some
security reason implication,
there are some implementation
out there that in fact,
We use Tunnel, really.
It's a way to tunnel v4 in v6,
and sometimes it bypasses firewalls,
and people are not very happy with that.
So in Panther, it's by default.
There's still a socket option,
if you know what you're doing.
You can use it.
Mac OS X doesn't tunnel v4 in v6,
but there are other
implementations that do.
And so we have the
DNS over IPv6 in Panther.
And so the idea here is
for application last year,
we had a full office session
on IPv6 and how to code for
address family independence.
It's really easy to write programs
that support both v4 and v6.
That's why those APIs are standard,
and we encourage you to do that.
And so one of the great
stuff about v6 is rendezvous.
We have a team who works over IPv6,
so it's a very easy way to find out
services and test stuff on the network.
You don't need to have...
With IPv6,
you don't need to have an infrastructure.
V6 automatically configure addresses,
link local addresses
on all the interfaces,
so you can find services.
It works perfectly with
multi-owned system.
IPSec provides IP-level
security from within the kernel,
the bottom of the stack.
So we support a bunch of... There are
a number of APIs to set those security
policy and association database.
Those are the kind of the
filters that tells you what
traffic to encrypt using IPSec.
There's the PFK socket.
IPSec set policy,
it's a library function.
And also you can have
a per-socket control.
So we saw a few, already a few in Jaguar,
a few application,
third-party application using IPSec.
So the new thing is that in Panther,
we're also using IPSec for our VPN.
So there is something that is...
Something to remember is that this is
a single shared system-wide resource.
So, and it's managed by the
internet key exchange,
the one, the protocol that exchange
the keys managed by a single
daemon called Raccoon.
And so it's a single resource.
So please, if you use IPSec,
make sure you don't override preferences
or settings from other applications.
And we've added also
Net Traversal in Panther.
That's something that really,
in this data, in these days,
with that is prevalent.
And so we support that.
That's the, it's not yet a standard.
It's still a ITF draft,
but that's what we, that's the best,
that's the best solution.
That's the way to traverse NAT with IPSec
that's most likely to be interoperable,
although it's not yet a standard.
So we have an IP firewall that
works also with IPv6 in Panther.
And again,
just like with IPSec and Raccoon,
it's a single system-wide resource.
So with IPSec,
you can define filters and actions
to do on certain types of packets.
But just remember it's a single,
wide resource.
And just like, so for example,
you've certainly noticed that the
built-in firewall will not turn
itself on if it detects there
are other rules on the system.
So be nice and don't overwrite
other people's rules.
Or you can ask the user
if he wants to flush.
There are two ways to
control the firewall:
a command line, a PFW,
and also just straight socket options.
PFND RV Sockets are sockets that allow
us to write user space protocols.
That means that's a facility
we have in the kernel,
using these types of sockets,
to send raw Ethernet
frames up to user space.
And we use that with 822.1X.
It's an Ethernet protocol, in fact.
And so that's a great way
to stay out of the kernel.
And it's also used to implement
other protocol stacks that are
maybe specific for an application
like DECNIC or IPX and others.
There are other solutions
that you also can be used.
It can be used instead of PFND RV Sockets
also to implement user space protocol.
Those are listed to the diverged
sockets that work with the firewall.
And NBPF, the Berkeley Packet Filter.
So...
We, given the state of the internal
API for network kernel extensions,
we really like, if possible,
that you implement your
protocol in user space,
if possible,
so that you can be sure that there's no
problem of compatibility in the future.
So let's talk about the problem, I mean,
the network kernel extension.
So today, the NKEs are tied to the
kernel implementation.
So we cannot really say
that we have an API.
It's really-- we provide hooks
where extensions can really
get to the internal mechanism.
That's fragile.
It's going to break.
It broke in the past.
And every time we implement a fix,
for example,
or want to improve performance,
we have to think about,
is this going to break a
third-party kernel extension?
So if you came to the session
about the kernel yesterday morning,
you're certainly aware that we
are working on a new API that will
isolate extensions from the internal
implementation of the kernel.
And it's not yet ready.
It's underway.
And we certainly like your
participation and feedback,
because we're going to do certainly
some drastic change in there.
System configuration.
So that's the foundation
for our mobility solution.
And it's based on a daemon
and a couple of set of APIs.
So we have a set of
APIs to manage preferences.
That's the one that I use, for example,
by the network preference panel.
So those are system-wide,
local preference for this host.
And we have also an API to get the status
about the state of some parameters.
So that's the basis for
the dynamic behavior.
So there are notifications when
there's a change in the state of
some data or key or the preference.
And they are used today also by a
lot of third-party applications,
for example, ISPs,
ones who provide their own dialers.
They use that.
And also application.
That's how they can dynamically react
to a networking change using the status.
And it's used, for example,
by Mail and Safari.
And also it's the basis
for the dial-on-demand.
So what applications they use usually,
so the preference API I just
talked about are more used
to manage the configuration,
but we have an API called the
ASC Network Catchability API that
allows to check whether a set of maybe
NAM addresses or pair of addresses,
NAM in Panther, are reachable.
Rich Ability, it's not a guarantee that,
for example, the distant host is,
you can really connect to a distant host.
But what it says is that
from the standpoint of the
system locally on the machine,
there's an IP address, a router is there,
maybe there's also a
DNS server configured.
And so it's this API, so Unify,
a set of information, you know,
it gives you a synthetic view of it.
Um...
So when to use SC Network Catchability?
So just to tell you if you have a
chance to connect to the server.
Maybe the server is-- so it will
not tell you if there's a firewall,
if you have a problem with
NAT or things like that,
things outside of the
control of the system.
But at least it can tell you the
system is properly configured.
So when there are
changes in connectivity,
that's you have the chance to clean up,
and maybe to provide some
feedback to the user.
For example,
CFSocketStream use that on every socket.
Becky's going to talk about the
CFSocket API a little bit later,
but our own frameworks use
this API as its base API.
So something new in Panter that works,
in fact, with the reachability API is
the SC Network Connection API.
This is the API that enables dial-on
demand from within the application.
And it's similar to the OTPP remote
access API we had on Mac OS 7 and 8.9.
So the idea-- so today,
what we have is really something that
we call at Apple dial-on traffic.
So if you enable that preference in PPP,
the PPP, every time it sees that
some data is to be sent,
it will dial the modem.
And that's the cause
of a lot of complaints,
because it's the system dials
at the most unopportune times.
So what we want to do is, instead,
with having this new API,
to enable application developers
to-- to be in control.
And they can decide or
maybe prompt the user.
So I need to get on the network.
Do you want me-- this request to dial.
Do you want me to dial?
Yes, no.
And so, for example,
it's great for male clients.
And also, that's the same API that is
used not only for application,
but also for dialers also,
with different set of parameters.
Internet Connect,
our own Internet Connect in Panter,
uses this API.
So really,
we would like you to adopt this API.
So I put together this
little sample code.
It's just to show you how simple it is.
So, for example,
this is how to tell if you want to,
for example, to access www.apple.com,
what you would do, you would call
sc_network_hability_create_with_name,
so where you pass the server name,
and then you specify a
callback for this reference,
you get back a reference,
and you specify your callback.
So when there's an event that
happens for the change in the
reachability of www.apple.com,
your callback will be called.
And you just schedule
it with your run loop,
so it was great for applications
above the BSD layer,
let's say, and you just run the run loop.
And then this is the
reachability callback.
When you get an event, basically,
The major event is the
flag that tells you.
It's a set of flags you get,
but the one that's really interesting
here is whether it's reachable or not.
There are sub-flags,
and one tells you if a
connection is required.
And now in Panther,
if the server -- so if you
need to start a connection,
you just have to use the connection API.
And the Start Connection API,
usually when you are not a dialer,
you just want to use the default,
certainly the most current connection
the user did with Internet Connect.
So you just tell the user,
just copy the current preference,
and you tell the system to
create a reference again,
because that's kind of the hook,
the endpoint that you will use.
And again, it's an event-based mechanism,
so you schedule in the run loop,
to to be ready to receive event and
then you you call the the start and
you release the stuff you you don't
need and again when there's an event
on the on the connections you're being
called back and here the the main event
you you have it's very similar to the
remote access api and it's just so if
it's disconnected connecting connected
disconnecting and in case of error you
get invalid but and when you're done you
close the connection so the one point
in the in this api the the connection as
are raf counted that means that the idea
is that the when the the connect when
your application doesn't doesn't need
to to use the the system certainly you
would like to the the modem to disconnect
so you just release the connection if
there was another application using
the connection it will still hold
the reference on the connection so
the it's on the on the last reference
that the connection will be turned on
And with that, I'd like to... Oh, no,
one more thing.
Last but not least,
that was my... It's the
DNS Service Discovery API,
so those are the rendezvous APIs.
There was a session yesterday about...
Oh, something is wrong here.
The session is not kernel programming,
but that's the Rendezvous API.
It's 102.
So the NAN service discovery APIs are
the foundation for Rendezvous,
and you have sets of APIs to
register NAN services.
Also an API to browse for services.
Rendezvous is really
something for end users.
So that's the idea,
is that the end user will
pick and choose a service.
It's not so great for
background connections,
because really the idea
is that the user chooses,
browse something,
and just remember the name.
And then when it's time to
connect to that service,
you have an API to resolve,
and the service into an address on
the port you can use in subsequent,
for example, Socket score.
We have three API flavors,
depending what level your application,
what type of API your
application is using.
So we have the DNS service discovery API.
It's a system-level API.
That's the foundation for the other ones.
In CF Network,
there's the CFNet services.
So if you have a run loop,
it certainly could be
the natural way to use.
And in Cocoa, there's NSNet services.
That works for Cocoa.
It's Objective-C.
And now with that,
I'd like to introduce Bikki Woolrich,
who's going to talk about frameworks.
Thanks, Vincent.
So Vincent has taken you through the
basic feature set of what's available
direct from the Darwin system,
what's available at the
Berkeley Sockets layer.
And what I'm going to do now is talk
about what we've built on top of that
into the framework layers above it.
So I was thinking about
how to prepare this talk,
and it seemed with the
introduction of Safari 1.0,
the best way to look at those APIs was
to look at what Safari has built upon.
And that's how we're going to start out.
After that,
I'm going to talk briefly about
some of the other networking
technologies on the system.
And finally,
I'm going to give you some tips and
hints on how you can transition off
some of the older Mac OS 9-based APIs.
So let's talk for a moment
about the Safari technologies.
When we started writing Safari, we,
of course,
built on the technologies we already
had built on top of the existing APIs.
But we also discovered a lot of
places where those APIs were lacking.
And so we developed many
new APIs at the same time.
And now we've made those
APIs available to you.
That's part of the Safari SDK.
As you've already heard from the keynote,
those APIs are available on any
Panther system and on any Jaguar system,
provided Safari 1.0 has been installed.
And I do not have enough time to
go into those APIs in great detail.
So I'm going to point you to
some other sessions as we go,
including session 403,
which took place on Tuesday.
But when you get the DVDs,
you can take a look at it.
Don Melton gave a pretty good overview
of all of those APIs in greater detail
than I'm going to have time for.
So what goes into Safari?
It's on Mac OS X,
so you know the core of the
networking has to be BSD Sockets.
But there's a lot of stuff between
Sockets and what ultimately
is the Safari application.
And the first layer in that
stack is Core Foundation.
Now, Core Foundation provides a couple
different important things.
It's not really a
networking library per se,
but it provides a couple
basic abstractions for us.
First and foremost, the run loop.
The run loop is how all of the
different interesting events inside an
application get funneled into a single
callback mechanism on our system.
So if you look at
NSRunLoop or Carbon Events,
that's how user events
ultimately are transmitted.
And it provides our basic
asynchrony mechanism.
CFURLs, Basic Abstraction for URL,
Pure Data Type.
And those two kind of come
together with CF Socket,
which provides a way to take a socket,
a file descriptor,
and connect it into the run loop.
So rather than having to manage
a select loop yourself or a
file descriptor set yourself,
you can use CF Socket to get that
input managed in the same way that all
of the other user events are managed.
CF Socket can handle
literally any socket.
It works with most file descriptors, too,
but we only promise it
with every true socket.
That includes UDP sockets,
as well as server-side accept sockets.
Built on top of CFSocket is CFStream.
CFStream is just a basic
stream abstraction.
You get a stream, you open it,
you read it, eventually you close it.
If you're unlucky,
it errored out somewhere along the way.
It's hooked into the run loop so
that it can signal the client,
your application,
whenever bytes are available or
something interesting has happened.
However, because it's a stream-based API,
it only really works with TCP sockets.
It doesn't make much sense
to talk about a stream for an
accept socket or a UDP socket.
So that's Core Foundation.
If you take a step up
from Core Foundation,
we get to CF Network.
CFNetwork is the library on
our system that provides the
basic protocol implementations.
This is where our HTTP stack lives.
This is where the FTP stack lives.
CFNetwork itself does not actually
provide the SSL implementation,
but it provides all the
hooks into SSL and TLS.
So if you've got a socket stream,
you want to make it secure,
CFNetwork provides the hooks to
run SSL over the socket stream.
Finally, Rendezvous.
Vincent mentioned CFNet Services,
which is the API that CFNetwork
provides for accessing Rendezvous.
The basic goal besides
CF Network is to provide you with
those protocol implementations
and hook them into the run loop.
However, our goal with CF Network was not
to be the most convenient API.
There are higher-level APIs that
provide that convenience.
At this level,
we're trying to give you full control.
What that means is that all the
protocol details are fully exposed.
So,
there's a lot of power implied with that.
There's nothing you can do with HTTP,
for instance,
that you cannot do through CF Network.
But, on the other hand,
you better know HTTP or the
CF Network APIs aren't going
to make a lot of sense to you.
Other ways we give you full control:
At the CF Network layer,
you have complete control over precisely
when the reads and writes are done.
Again, this can be a pain if you're not
actually interested in the details,
but if you need that control,
this is the layer to get it at.
Likewise, the threading policy:
We do not dictate a threading
policy for you at this level.
At higher levels,
we'll see some APIs that will
actually take care of spawning
background threads for you,
for instance, but not at this level.
A couple things new in
CF Network with Panther:
We've added DNS host resolution.
This is asynchronous host resolution,
so you can start a request to look up
the address of yahoo.com or anything,
and you'll get a callback
later on telling you when
that address is available.
We've also added FTP support
inside CF Network.
For more information about CF Network,
come to session 112 tomorrow
afternoon at 5:00 PM.
Yeah, okay, last talk of the conference,
but what do you want?
Okay,
so what do we have above CF Network?
Well,
I mentioned some convenience APIs that do
not expose as many of the details to you.
That's what these new
Foundation URL APIs are all about.
So, new set of APIs in Panther.
It's a full-featured
set of URL loading APIs,
and here,
the point is for the API to be as
convenient and abstract as possible.
So, the policy is to make most
of the choices for you.
Does that mean that you
can't modify those choices
if you want an unusual setup?
No, of course you can.
But the policy is going to
be to start out by making the
most common decision for you,
and then you kind of have
to undo those decisions.
Whereas at CF Network,
the policy was that you have to apply
each and every policy decision yourself.
The API is asynchronous,
building on the run loop, of course.
It's basically callback-based.
If you're familiar with
the Cocoa API paradigms,
we do it via delegates.
And at this level,
we add extensibility via subclassing.
So if you've got to have the
Gopher scheme implementation,
we don't provide it for you,
but there's a class you can subclass to
implement it yourself and get it plugged
into the entire URL loading system.
And again,
it's part of the Foundation library,
so it's built right into the core
and available to you at that layer.
And for more information about these,
go to session 418 this afternoon,
where we'll be talking about these
APIs in much greater depth than
I'll have time to go into here.
But just to give you
a flavor for the API,
here are the basic abstractions.
You start out by creating
an NSURL request.
This encapsulates everything,
all the information needed
to configure a URL download.
So the URL itself,
if you have a custom user
agent and you're doing HTTP,
you can set it there.
Proxy settings,
all of that goes into the request.
Once you've got a request,
you build a connection from the request.
The connection represents
the ongoing download.
The connection has a delegate.
That's the NSURL connection delegate.
And you use that to get information
about how your connection,
how the download is proceeding.
Finally, what you're going to get back
from the delegate is the data,
of course,
but also an NSURL response object
that encapsulates everything that's
not actually part of the data.
So that includes things
like the MIME type,
like the HTTP headers that came back.
And then I just want to highlight
briefly the other features that are
built into the Foundation URL APIs.
I've listed each and every class here,
but I'm just going to talk
about the major bullet points
to explain the features.
Caching happens
automatically with this API.
There's both an on-disk and
in-memory cache available and used.
Cookie storage and management,
all handled automatically,
all shared for a given user
across all applications,
unless there are preferences to change
whether your particular cookie is stored.
But by default,
they'll be stored so that all
applications can access them.
Authentication and credential management,
we've got a bunch of classes built
in so that you can know exactly
who's asking for a password,
whether there's a password already
available on the system for your use,
and give you everything you need so
you can prompt the user in your system.
So you can prompt the user and
get that password if necessary.
And finally,
the extensibility I mentioned.
So there's a class available,
NSURL protocol,
that you can subclass if you
want to add your own particular
scheme that we do not provide.
So that takes us all the way
through the URL loading APIs.
The last piece, of course, is WebKit.
WebKit is new in Panther.
It's a brand-new public framework.
And this is the layer that actually
does all the rendering and navigation.
So it's what actually draws to the
screen and interprets the user events,
as the user clicks or moves
throughout the document.
It's a fully-pluggable architecture,
so that you can support rendering
new kinds of document types.
We, of course, handle HTML text and the
image types out of the box.
But in fact,
we provide sample code in the
SDK that shows how you would extend
WebKit to be able to display PDFs.
It's an Objective-C API fully
integrated with the AppKit classes.
So, in fact, the central class WebView is
a subclass of NSView.
The SDK also provides a bunch of example
code that shows how you can take that
WebView and use it from a pure C or
C++ API and integrate it fully with
Carbon HI views and Carbon events.
For more information about that,
there's a session tomorrow sometime,
I'm not sure when, but session 420,
they're going to go into the
WebKit APIs in much greater detail.
And that's the full stack.
That's what goes into the
networking portion of Safari.
So now I'm going to touch briefly on
these three other networking APIs:
Web Services, NS Stream,
and Launch Services.
Web Services is a framework
we introduced in Jaguar.
It provides APIs for issuing
an XML RPC or a SOAP request.
In Jaguar,
the API was very focused on the client,
so if you were a client and
wanted to issue such a request and
receive a response from the server,
we had APIs for that.
But starting in Panther,
we've added support for
server-side operations,
so if you're on the other side
of the equation and need to
interpret an incoming request,
we can now help you do that.
NSStream is new in Foundation in Panther.
It's actually two different classes:
NSInputStream and NSOutputStream.
They're toll-free bridge to
CFReadStream and CFWriteStream,
which have existed for a while.
And the reason why that's important
is because NSInput and NSOutputStream
is designed for subclassing.
So we've received a
lot of requests saying,
"Hey,
I don't want to talk to a socket," or,
"I need to interpose a data
filter between the actual bytes
coming in from the network
before you start processing it.
How do I do that?" Well,
you can't really do that with a C API,
but with NSStream,
we now have a way to do that.
Just subclass NSInputStream
or NSOutputStream,
insert the filter or extra
data processing you need,
and then thanks to toll-free bridging,
you can take that object and pass
it directly into the APIs that
consume read and write streams.
And this was touched on briefly
at session 410 yesterday,
the Cocoa update,
where they talked about everything
that was new in Foundation and AppKit.
And finally, Launch Services.
Well, most of you are familiar with
Launch Services as the API you use if
you have a file and you want to open
it exactly the same way Finder does.
So you're probably thinking, "Well,
what the heck?
That's not a networking API." Well,
the fact is that Launch Services is
good at finding helper
applications of all kinds,
not just for files.
So the Launch Services APIs can be
used to open an arbitrary URL as well,
or to find out what application
would handle a particular MIME type.
In fact, Internet Config,
which is an older API that
you may be more familiar with,
calls through to Launch Services to
handle these kinds of services.
And so I mention that, of course,
to get to this next point.
We have some older APIs,
some legacy APIs,
that we're kind of interested
in getting you to transition off
of to some of the newer ones.
And Internet Config is one of those.
Are we taking these APIs away from you?
No, of course not.
They're still on the system.
They'll continue to work the
way they always have worked.
But we're no longer extending these
APIs the way we're extending some of the
newer APIs that I've just talked about.
These are the four I'm going
to address in particular:
URL Access Manager, NSURL Handle,
Internet Config, and OT.
So URL Access Manager.
Clients tend to use it
in one of two fashions.
Either they have a one-off,
well-controlled transaction,
or they're doing some kind
of longer-lived transaction.
If you're in that one-off case
where you know exactly the
details of what you want to do,
you know you're performing an
HTTP post to a server you control,
you set up as part of your business,
CF Network is probably the best way
for you to go with something like that.
It gives you full control of the details.
At that kind of level,
the extra abstraction
almost gets in your way,
because you know exactly
what you're trying to do.
On the other hand,
if you want an API that's simpler,
kind of one-shot, fire and forget,
NSURL Connection is the way to go.
And then if you're using
URL Access in the other way,
where you're performing
some very long-lived,
complex transaction, where you don't want
to handle the details,
NSURL Upload and NSURL Download are
the two new glasses in the
URL loading APIs that are available
for that kind of functionality.
NSURL Handle in Foundation.
The new URL loading APIs really
supersede NSURL Handle,
so use NSURL Connection instead.
We've added a compatibility shim
that connects the two engines,
so if you have some investment
in a URL Handle subclass,
that'll continue to
work as it always has.
And not only that,
anyone using the new API,
the URL Connection API,
will automatically see and
talk to that subclass as well.
Works in the other direction,
so if you have a URL Handle-based API,
you'll actually see and
call through to the new
Foundation loading engine as well.
Internet Config.
So if you're looking for a helper app,
you're just trying to figure out,
who should I use to open this URL,
or who should I use to
handle this MIME type,
call Launch Services directly instead.
The other thing that we see
in Internet Config is access
to these system preferences,
things like the proxy setting.
To get those, talk directly to
System Configuration instead.
Finally, OpenTransport.
We've been telling you for at least
three years now that OpenTransport
is not your high-performance native
networking solution on this system.
BSD Sockets is.
So as you're writing new code,
we encourage you to use Sockets directly.
Also, when you're choosing
your networking code,
maybe Sockets is not
the right layer for you,
and we encourage you to think about
whether one of the higher-level
APIs that's going to provide
connection to the run loop for you
will maybe serve your needs better.
So that's all the
material I had for today.
I want to continue to
repeat this roadmap.
I've talked about most of these already.
I did not talk about 4.11
Internet Technologies,
which talked a lot about the
Safari technologies and the
web in kind of a general sense.
That took place yesterday.
Vincent mentioned the Rendezvous talk,
also yesterday.
Kernel Extensions,
CF Network In-Depth is tomorrow,
and then the Feedback Forum.
So if you don't like
all of what I just said,
come tomorrow morning at 10:30.
Some contact information there.
And with that,
I'd like to ask Tom Weier back
up on the stage for the Q&A.
Oh, sorry.
I should mention the documentation.
There's a load of documentation for
the different networking available.
Go to ADC Home Documentation Networking,
and pretty much every
API I've talked about here,
everything that Vincent talked about,
has documentation under that heading.